For enhanced Ecommerce implementation,
you have to follow some of the same steps for basic E-commerce.
But there's potentially a lot more work that you'll need to do
depending on which enhanced E-commerce features you want to populate.
There will be additional configuration for defining your checkout funnel steps as well.
Note that while basic E-commerce uses a Google Analytics tag
in GTM with tag type set to transaction.
Enhanced Ecommerce data piggybacks on a regular page view or event tag.
So, you'll need to configure your page view or
event tag with the enable enhanced ecommerce functionality checkbox.
I would recommend selecting use data layer,
which is also a checkbox setting.
This will allow GTM to pick up the enhanced E-commerce dimensions
and metrics that you or your developers have written to the data layer,
and we'll pass appropriately formatted Google Analytics E-commerce hit data.
So here, we're looking at a data layer push for an event addToCart.
When somebody adds an item to their cart,
you push this information in the data layer,
and you want to include the E-commerce action,
which is the addToCart,
and then you also want to include that data for
the individual product that is being added to
the cart that's highlighted in yellow below.
Here's what an E-commerce purchase data layer pushed might look like.
This is a perfectly working example.
Again, you can consult the documentation and pick what works best for you,
in terms of what data you want to send in and in what format,
but this is a standard data layer.push for E-commerce purchase.
It has the transaction ID,
and it has the notations here from the support documentation of
recommended data to include as well as items that are required,
so a transaction ID is required.
Again, for a product,
you either have to have a name or ID.
We recommend both.
You can send multiple products,
and each product would be listed in its own data layer object.
So, just make sure that you follow the proper formatting guidelines for
this hit information in order for it to get picked up by Google Tag Manager properly.
Let's just circle back to the GA admin settings that you'll
need to populate Enhanced Ecommerce data into your view.
Briefly, in the analytics interface,
under View Settings, Ecommerce Settings,
you can see that there's a slider for enable E-commerce on or off,
and then enable enhanced E-commerce reporting on and off.
With enhanced E-commerce reporting on,
you also have the ability to define the funnel steps for your checkout behavior.